```properties
author: Frederik Mikkelsen
date: 2019-07-01T18:29:04.280Z
```

# So I developed a blog

So I finally got around to start a blog. Not only did I start a blog, I also developed it from scratch. My general plans with this site is to publish articles about anything related to software. 

The first thing I did was to search the web for a nice open source blogging platform. After a bit of searching I figured it could be a fun task to write my own static site generator based on markdown, and so here we are.

## Why develop a blog from scratch?

I have found that there are quite a few benefits to this approach:

A **fine level of control** lets me choose what I want to do with this site long-term. At some point I might want to extend this site so that it also serves as my “main” website where I now just have a collection of links.

**Extensible markdown integration** lets me write my articles in my favorite editor. It is rather easy to find a library to convert markdown to HTML. While I do not have fine grained control over the markdown library I chose to use, I still have good control over how it is post-processed. For instance, the byline at the top of this article is automatically generated by the static site generator I wrote. It gets the time and date from a hidden code block in this document that gets removed in post. Off the top of my head I can think of elements like footnotes, iframes, and diagrams that I would be interested in integrating into the markup.

**Version control** gives me not just a history of the site itself, but also of the documents. Readers will be able to submit changes via pull requests and perhaps even new articles altogether. GitHub also serves as a convenient backup of my writings.

**No moving parts** like JavaScript or a backend makes this thing very cheap and easy to host and maintain. I can host this on Netlify‘s CDN for free and just have their build servers run my site generator for each git push.

------

The source code for this site is available on GitHub under the MIT license.

https://github.com/frederikam/blog